All right, now in this lesson, we're going to look at a couple more techniques that we can use to
solve some interesting problems.
So there was one problem that I raised a couple of lessons ago in the main class here.
Let me minimize that in this main class here in our switch.
We needed to provide a default scenario here, and at the time I didn't feel like dealing with it.
So I said, for now, let's just return a null.
But I also mentioned that that could come back and bite us later if we were not careful, especially
in real life.
So the problem is that this switch is switching on the role field that is coming out of this text string
here.
So the role field would be any of these guys program or manager analysts here.
And what would happen is if that word that was in the role field here cannot match to any of these cases
here, then the switch would go to the default, in which case it would return a null.
That null would get stored in the employee, which is what it starts off being anyway.
Then we would come down here to print something from a null object, which is to say no object at all,
and you can't call a method on a null object.
And so we would get an error, which in Java is called an exception.
By the way, we will learn about exceptions.
And you'd get what's called a null pointer exception, just meaning that you tried to call a method
on an object that points to nowhere, right?
Because these object variables really are just pointing to a location in memory somewhere where there
is an object, but a null variable points to nowhere, essentially.
All right.
And so the program would blow up and stop working at that point.
So ideally, we'd rather solve this problem in a better way.
I mentioned that one way we could solve it is by just creating a dummy class, so not CEO or analyst
or manager programmer.
Maybe it's just dummy employee or fake employee or whatever, and then implement the get salary method
on that class to return zero.
So that would have the effect of returning something that isn't null, which is generally not a bad
idea, and it won't negatively impact our calculations because it returns a zero.
Right?
So that's one way we could do it.
Interestingly, now that we have implemented a class hierarchy and changed the employee interface to
an employee class, if you recall, we actually did end up implementing a get salary method that does
actually return zero.
And so one thing that we could do now because employee is just the class, we could simply do this new
employee and then pass in our people match support group like so and that would work.
And so now if we were to have one of these, in fact, here, I'll tell you what, I'll duplicate one
line here and I'm going to put something that won't match like programmers right in here.
So that should cause our employee to be called and let's go ahead and run it now.
It shouldn't affect the outcome salary total, but let's run it and see.
Very good.
Yeah.
Nothing blows up there.
Right?
Whereas if we didn't do it this way and let me, let me just put it back to what it was, and now if
we run it, the program is going to blow up.
There we go.
Yeah, it blows up right away.
OK, so well blows up after the first one, rather after the first employee is passed.
Right?
Yeah, because it doesn't know what to do with that.
So that's a little example of what can go wrong if we don't think about these kinds of scenarios.
Now, later on, we'll learn another technique that was introduced in newer versions of Java, where
we maybe don't even rely on null values so much.
Now, another way that we also could have handled this is to check for null before we call these two
lines here.
So we could do something like select these two lines here and surround them with the what is a command
option T and surround them with an F block.
So number one, and then we can say something like if an employee is not null, then do these things
otherwise don't do these things.
So here, let's just run this again and see.
There you go.
So now it doesn't blow up and we still get the same number as before.
So this is another way to handle that.
But it does involve us putting a little bit tiny, tiny, tiny, bit more complexity because we're doing
this conditional block.
And if you might recall, I stated that every time we put a conditional block in our code, that actually
increases a certain type of complexity.
It's called psychosomatic complexity, and it is one measurement or a metric that can be tracked to
kind of give us an idea of how complex a class is overall.
So, you know, if we can avoid having to use a conditional and still get the same basic outcomes in
effect, we might want to look for ways to avoid that.
But this is a small one and you see this often in code.
This would be called a null check.
We're just checking before we call employee, we're checking to make sure, hey, only do these things
if if employee is not null, right, which you can basically translate to mean empty effectively.
OK, now there's one other technique that we will learn a little bit later for dealing with nulls because
the the new hotness which isn't that new anymore, but the new ish the newer hotness in the Java world
is to actually not work with nulls and instead return something called an optional.
So we'll look at that in a later lesson as well.
OK, so so far now we've seen that we can just leave that null and then we can do a null check, or
we could create a new subclass that's kind of like a dummy object and return the dummy object.
I left that as an exercise for you to do, though.
So the same way that we created analyst and CEO and manager and programmer, we could create one more
class, call it whatever you want, dummy employee or something.
It would still need to extend from the employee class, but you would be implementing it such that it's
get salary method would intentionally just return to zero.
And we don't really care about it.
And it's up to you what you'd want to do with it to string method.
It's kind of a throwaway placeholder just so that we're not returning nothing.
OK, so that's that's something we could do.
Or you saw that in this particular case, our employee class already happens to implement by default,
a get salary method that returns zero.
So we also could just instantiate an instance of the employee class itself.
OK, so we've seen several ways to deal with this.
And so in the next lesson, we are going to carry on with some additional things that we can do with
the employee class.
So I'll see you in the next one.